Shorten learn about viam page (#3518)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/get-started/_index.md

carouselscript: true
---

Viam is a software platform that makes it easy to combine and integrate hardware and software to build machines, connect them with the cloud, and make them smarter with machine learning.

<img src="../about-viam.png" width="800px" alt="Viam architecture on device where viam-server uses the machine configuration to manage drivers for different hardware and in the cloud where the platform offer data management, ML, and extended functionality.">

## Support

> Viam runs on **microcontrollers** and **64-bit Linux OS, macOS, or Windows Subsystem for Linux**.

Author: ```suggestion
Viam runs on microcontrollers and 64-bit Linux OS, macOS, or Windows Subsystem for Linux.
```

{{< board-carousel >}}
<br>

> ## Install Viam on your machine

Reviewer: This heading doesn't quite fit the contents--"install" isn't the same as use APIs etc. Maybe just this??
```suggestion
## Viam on your machine
```

At the core of Viam is the open-source `viam-server` executable which runs on a computer and provides drivers for hardware and manages software and data for a machine.
If you are working with microcontrollers, [`viam-micro-server`](/installation/) is a lightweight version of `viam-server` which can run on resource-limited embedded systems.

> - **Configuration**: create a configuration specifying which hardware {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} the machine consists of and `viam-server` turns that into reality.

Reviewer: "Turns that into reality" frankly sounds like hand wavy marketing speak. What do we really mean?
```suggestion
- **Configuration**: Create a configuration file specifying which hardware {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} the machine consists of.
This configuration provides `viam-server` with the necessary information to access the components and services.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- **Configuration**: Create a configuration file specifying which hardware {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} the machine consists of and `viam-server` runs the hardware drivers and software to operate your machine.
```

> - **Configuration**: Create a configuration file specifying which hardware {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} the machine consists of and `viam-server` runs the hardware drivers and software to operate your machine.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Modularity**: `viam-server` runs hardware drivers and software to operate your machine.
  A machine consists of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and higher-level software {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}}.
```

> - **Standard APIs**: Each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} type has a **standard API** that you can access with any [SDK](/sdks/).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Standard APIs**: Each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} type has a standard, hardware-agnostic API.
```

> - **Standard APIs**: Each {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} type has a **standard API** that you can access with any [SDK](/sdks/).

Reviewer: These tabs are great, but both in the original page and in this one, they really emphasize and illustrate that you can use different languages, but do *not* show that you can use the same code with different motors. This new text completely eliminates that point even more than the original. Was that intended? It seems like that's a pretty cool thing about Viam...

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

- **Remote control**: You can use the Viam app, the Viam mobile app, or your own custom apps, to control and monitor your machines securely **from anywhere in the world**.
- **Local control**: In factory settings or remote environments, you can operate and monitor your machines over a local area network (LAN).

## Viam Cloud

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) is the ecosystem for configuring and managing machines which provides:

> - **Configuration**: As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working. as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.

Reviewer: This is confusing because we already had a "configuration" bullet above. Also typo.
```suggestion
- **Configuration and testing**: As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.
```
or
```suggestion
- **Test your resources**: As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.
```

Author: changed the above instead

- **Extensibility**: To support more hardware and software, you can use _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="modules" >}}_ from the [Viam Registry](/registry/) or create your own for custom needs.

> - **Intelligence**: Make your machines smarter and better with [Data Management](/services/data/), [Machine Learning](/services/ml/), [SLAM](/services/slam/) and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Intelligence**: Make your machines smarter and better with [data management](/services/data/), [machine learning](/services/ml/), [SLAM](/services/slam/) and more.
```
[nit]

{{% expand "Click here to see example projects you can build with this" %}}

- Capture sensor data on 100s of boats and sync it to the cloud when machines have internet connectivity.

> - Use Machine Learning to detect wildlife and when detected start data capture and send alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use machine learning to detect wildlife and when detected start data capture and send alerts.
```
[out of diff nit]

- Allow delivery robots to use their location and SLAM to navigate intelligently between GPS coordinates.

{{% /expand%}}

### Fleet management

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com)'s **fleet management** capabilities enable you to:

> - **Deployment**: Configure and update hardware, software, and machine learning models for groups of machines in one go.
> - **Management** Manage deployment and permissions using RBAC.
> - **Observability & Teleoperation**: Control and debug machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deploy**: Configure and update hardware, software, and machine learning models for groups of machines in one go.
- **Manage**: Manage deployment and permissions using RBAC.
- **Observe & Teleoperate**: Control and debug machines from anywhere.
```
grammatically wonky with "enable you to". Also, "Control and debug machines" alone sounds too short, and we've already talked about controlling and debugging earlier in the page, so I think the from anywhere part is the lead here.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

- **Remote control**: You can use the Viam app, the Viam mobile app, or your own custom apps, to control and monitor your machines securely **from anywhere in the world**.
- **Local control**: In factory settings or remote environments, you can operate and monitor your machines over a local area network (LAN).

## Viam Cloud

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) is the ecosystem for configuring and managing machines which provides:

> - **Configuration**: As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working. as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Configuration**: As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.
```

- **Extensibility**: To support more hardware and software, you can use _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="modules" >}}_ from the [Viam Registry](/registry/) or create your own for custom needs.
- **Intelligence**: Make your machines smarter and better with [data management](/services/data/), [machine learning](/services/ml/), [SLAM](/services/slam/) and more.

{{% expand "Click here to see example projects you can build with this" %}}

- Capture sensor data on 100s of boats and sync it to the cloud when machines have internet connectivity.

- Use machine learning to detect wildlife and when detected start data capture and send alerts.

- Allow delivery robots to use their location and SLAM to navigate intelligently between GPS coordinates.

{{% /expand%}}

### Fleet management

> The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com)'s **fleet management** capabilities enable you to:

Author: ```suggestion
The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) enables the following **fleet management** capabilities:
```

- **Deployment**: Configure and update hardware, software, and machine learning models for groups of machines in one go.

> - **Management** Manage deployment and permissions using RBAC.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Management** Manage deployments and permissions using RBAC.
```

> - **Observability & Teleoperation**: Control and debug machines.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Observability & Teleoperation**: Control and debug machines from anywhere.
```
